Welcome back in this video we are going to look into the pop function which allows us to remove the
last item in a list.
Therefore I have this list prepared here called planets and in there you have the nine planets that
are within our solar system and Pluto is in there as well as I think it was decided that Pluto is a
planet.
In the end so they weren't sure for quite a while so they said it wasn't not but in the end it is a
At least that's the latest decision.
So now if I want to get rid of the last element there is something called Pop and that's just used this
pop function.
And I'm going to just say planets that pop.
And what that will do is it will delete Pluto from this list so let's just try it out.
Let's run the code.
And as you can see Pluto is not in the list anymore.
So Mercury Venus Earth and so forth are all there but Pluto is not there.
So where did you go.
Well it got deleted from the list.
But at the same time it is the output of this approach here.
So this function or this code it gives us the output how do we test that.
Well let me show you real quick.
So we create a new cell where we have all of this code again.
And now instead of just calling this pop function in this line I'm going to create a variable that will
store the result of that.
So the result of this or the output or the return of this approach shared list name that pop is going
to be Pluto.
And how do we check that.
Well let's just do that.
Let's add a line here which is going to print.
So print P and let's run the code again.
And as you can see now it says Pluto and that is because P contains Pluto now it contains the thing
that was popped from the list.
So let's say we create another line and we call that P2 it's going to be planets that pop once again
and we print P2 onto the screen and you see Pluto and Neptune.
So the list is going to get smaller and at the same time we store the output of that pop.
And you could use that in plenty of approaches or situations where you have for example the last in
first out approach where are you a pen something to the list.
Then you take it out again because Mercury's way too far within our solar system are too close to the
sun and we're always on we take the last one from the list so we could just use pop in order to do that
and we could clean up the planets one by one.
And of course plenty of other approaches as well and we will use that quite a bit as well.
All right.
So in the next lecture you will find a little sheet containing some information about the list and Piven
and afterwards we're going to check how to convert data in Python.
So see you there.